Prelude

695AP, in the Marsh of Sylvia, Roy awaits the high bishop and his lord…
The sound of the rain landing upon a window was one of the only things I missed. I left Sylvia soon after this little event. That country was wet, and its people odd, and the religion that the men there followed was even odder. Lucith, I thought to myself as I stared out at the Marsh. What a foolish thing, to believe your god hanged himself.
Asmar was my god. Lucithists feared magic, and hated monsters. I would think us Asmarestents better folk. While the sacrifice of lambs and bad men were important in our faith, we never let the creatures or the people feel pain. For a merciful death is the only right one in Asmar’s eyes. Asmar had died in an iron maiden device. He had felt great pain, and thus wished peace upon all life, no matter its form.
Part of me wished that both faiths would get along though, for we both worshipped angels and reviled demons; and we both prayed to a single lawgiver from a distant land, who died and was reborn a god. Only, Asmar was his true name. My father had taught me that, and he would never lie.
It was the middle of winter, and yet the world was not white, but grey; grey as a sea storm, with dark clouds looming and clear rain that made the world look distorted. Snow was an unknown force in Sylvia, unless you went South to the Frigid Lands or far enough North to reach the Roof of the World. Faintly, amongst these heavy rains and even heavier winds, I spotted a light. A single beacon in the world of grey outside that reminded me of the warmth of distant places, like the rivers of fire that flowed through my homeland. I missed Sylvia’s rain, but I saw the warmth in leaving.
Then I saw horsesーthree, to be precise. And men atop them. Milord Tyranith was home! But the excitement died when I remembered who his guest was: Sanctus, the Lightbringer; high bishop of the Lucithistic Faith. The third rider looked to be a monk of sorts, and as the three got closer and closer to milord's manor, I could see the monk carrying a great sack over his shoulders.
I rushed from the high floor, barreling past the many maids and servants under Tyranith’s employ. I ducked under stacks of plates just cleaned and clothes in need of ironing in order to meet milord at the door. He was the King’s Councilor of War, though his office had left him with little to do as of late. Many men called him, quite simply, the General, for he was the greatest military tactician in Sylvia, to my knowledge.
When I was offered to take this journey, five years ago, I feared it, but was excited beyond a doubt. To be a squire for a legendary lord, in a distant land full of monsters as well, was truly the beginning of a hero’s story. But it hadn’t been so fantastic, however much I had enjoyed it. The language was… interesting, to say the least, and the culture was strange, though I had gotten used to it. But I had hardly seen any monsters. It turns out Sylvia had changed a lot since the days my father spoke of.
This place should have felt more magical. There had been three great wars in recent history, between monsters and men. Mages dwelt to the North, and barbarians to the South, and ogres and men fought conflicts against the undead, and dragons!
As I reached the entryway, the manor door swung open, and Tyranith stepped in, drenched from head to toe. “Boy,” he said, kindly, yet clearly distressed by the weather, “help guide the horses into the stable.” I did as was commanded. Sanctus hopped from his great white stallion, which was plated in armour of gold and silver. Luckily, there was shade from the rain on my way, so I was barely touched by it. After getting the bishop’s wondrous horse, and Tyranith’s own Sagarian steed, into the stables, I returned to the building. Once inside the doorway, after pushing closed the great oak gate with the help of the burdened monk, I unbuckled my boots. The bishop looked down at me, though I did not know how he could see. Upon his head he wore a golden ball, littered with a hundred embossed eyes, or more, each one dripping with water. And yet he somehow saw. It was said he never took it off. But how does he eat?
“Hello, little squire.” His tone was cocky and I didn’t like it. Men claimed he was a Chosen of the Lord, a warrior from heaven, sent down during the Purge, nearly seven centuries ago. Bollocks, I say. My father was a Chosenーthe Bright Blade of Asmar. Sanctus looked nothing like my father.
 Milord rarely dressed nicely, but he had rather swiftly changed into warmer clothing. He still wore leather beneath. “Armour should be worn at all times, however minor the event,” he would say. He still wore his sallet helmet. It did, however, have a mouth flap, which he’d removed entirely, so that he could drink and eat with little difficulty. I never knew why he kept the helmet covering only his upper face, but I was sure he would share the reason some time.
He wore a warm tabard of red and tan-white. He made sure I understood the meanings of certain colours in Sylvian noble clothing. They represented particular offices, but they were odd choices. In almost every country I knew, purple was the colour of royalty. But not in Sylvia. Here, royalty was blue, due to some old dispute over heraldry or some other. And there were other important colour meanings too: yellow clothing meant defence; red meant offence; green meant agriculture; and purple meant trade. His clothing was red due to his office, obviously.
Oh, and there was a final colour: snow-white for the church. In Emnos, my homeland, we had no such strange colour-coding for the lords. In fact, we had no central group of lords. We were a nomadic people, and there were only a few greater settlements, which had all been cursed by the Grey Storm long ago. Emnosi clothing was all browns and blacks, and our flag was a dark dark blue.
The maids and other workers quickly wiped all of the mud from Sanctus and Tyranith’s boots, and gave Sanctus reprieve of his pauldrons and hauberk of ringmail, made of white steel. The rest of his armour was made of bronze and styled with silver flowers. I was handed one of his pauldrons and on it was a design: the symbol of Lucith’s Noose, lined with gold and wrought with smashed gemstones. When he caught me staring, he spoke, “You like the gems boy? These are precious, one from every country in the known world!” As I continued to ponder over them, I saw many gems were dull and had no shimmer. Gems have power, my father had told me. And I knew it was true. I had heard of quartz and the abilities it granted magi, and of amethyst’s abilities to negate said effects. Onyx was praised for its connection to Asmar back home. So as my eyes studied the gemstones, I knew that they were not from many countries, like the bishop had stated. I saw moonstone rocks pretending to be diamonds, and miniscule green peridots trying hard to be emeralds. Pretenders.
“Roy… Lord Sanctus… to me please.” Tyranith had brought out his desk to a more central place in the manor, in front of a huge window that allowed me to watch the rain spill down its side. Glass for small windows was a common thing that every middle class house and inn could afford, but a window such as this… that would demand a heavy price, and there were many other large windows in this house. Tyranith would sometimes stand for hours, looking out over the wet hills and bug-ridden bogs of the Marsh. I had partaken in this activity many times as well. Milord had taught me of the benefits of terrain and weather in combat. The Marsh was the greatest place in Sylvia to hold a defensive position, save, perhaps, for Dragon Mountain, the tallest place in the world.
“I have got us some snacks and some wine, for you will require something to sustain yourselves. It is early in the day, and I presume it might be near nightfall by the time we are finished.” Tyranith ordered the monk over, who set down his heavy bag. From the bag he lifted many tomes of lore. The annals of heroes apparent in recent history, and many papers on those very three wars that were waged in living memory.. “We have read many ancient tales, Roy. But I think it is only right to give you your final lessons in modern heroes.”
“Ha!” Lord Sanctus laughed, taking the only other comfortable seat, aside from Milord’s, and demanding an extra bottle of wine from a maid. “Heroes… there are many to speak of. Do you mean to tell me the boy has never heard of the Queenspear? Or Bluemane?”
“He has heard tales, my friend. But not the whole truth.” That was true. I had heard a great many things about both of them, and others. Tyranith offered me a chair. It was made of a rich mahogany, quite expensive, yet uncomfortable for its lack of padding. I sat nonetheless. “Oh, where are my manners? Roy is my squire, Sanctus.”
“We are acquainted.” The bishop responded mockingly, which I’d thought might’ve been his only tone of voice.
“Splendid!” Milord’s voice was commanding, ominous, and brilliant for telling stories. “Roy, this is the friend I have spoken to you about many times. You may refer to him as Lord Sanctus only, for that is his preference.”
Sanctus dipped his finger in his goblet, which I thought quite strange, then caught his breath and gave me a nod, as if I was under his service now. But I would never be under his service. I’d sooner end up like Prince Stanly! I knew that tale very well, as all the other young squires loved to play it out with sticks and puppets.
Yet I responded with respect. “Yes, milord.”
“Very well spoken for a barbarian of Emnos!” Sanctus laughed his mocking laugh again.
“We are not barbarians, Lord Sanctus. Our culture is as developed as your own.” I kept my cool. I would not lose my temper with this man, as much I despised his presence.
The Lightbringer picked up his goblet, swished it around, then dipped his finger in it once again. The liquid seemed to drain. So that’s how he drinks! Still, how is he supposed to eat? “Well, it is true you are not barbaric in combat. I’ve heard you lot are only good at building houses!”
“Tis true.” I responded. “That we are great builders, and great farmers, for a land so bare and bereft of flora. But we also have a few good fighters.”
Sanctus smiled at the maid as she came over with another bottle. It was a local vintage, and had nowhere near the strength nor the fragrance of wines made out of Sylvia. “A few good fighters? Lucith be with us!” He leaned closer. “Every high lord, from Miltra’s Hold to New Brigantine, has an army of good fighters. Some are made up of great fighters.”
Milord stepped in. “While I agree with such statements, Sanctus, you must know that Roy is the son of Vell Imnarrin, the Bright Blade of Emnos. He is a great fighter.” I noticed that milord had no intention of calling him “Lord Sanctus,” as he had instructed me.
“I did not know this. But a bright blade is nothing compared to the weapon’s Lucith designs.”
I knew that he was trying to get a reaction, so I quieted myself.
The bishop continued. “So, will we read of this ‘Bright Blade?’”
“No,” said Tyranith, “we shall only read about the heroes of this land, because it is full of stories that we may get our hands on.”
“A wise choice, my friend. Ellion should be our first!” Prince Ellion Lionsoul was known as Bluemane, named for his natural blue hair. His sword, which resided in the Capital to my knowledge, had the same name. Milord said he was one of the greatest heroes; a prince that every man in the kingdom would want his daughter to marry. Still the lords rejoiced at the sound of his name. People said that his decisions were ones of pure valour. He was milord’s first squire.
“Exactly my idea, Lord Sanctus. It will ease everyone in for some of the more… controversial stories.” Santus did not look pleased when milord said “controversial.” I hadn’t a clue what he meant.
“Why, if I may ask milord, should we start with Ellion? Do his ventures not mark the end of the age of heroes?” I said.
“Yes, they do, and we can be done with this whole thing sooner!” Sanctus cried, lifting his wine for a toast. But he received no toast, and he returned the wine to its coaster on milord’s desk.
Tyranith sipped a bit of his own wine, his first sip of the day, and I had a sip of my own. It was from Hearthaven, said to be the very best in Sylvia. I thought it was a dull thing, lacking any real punch. A butler brought scones to the table, and set them down, as well as a small pot of cream. 
Tyranith spoke. “On the contrary, I would like to say that the exploits of Ellion mark the beginning of the age of heroes, and we get many grand stories from it!” I liked the way milord would always spin things on their head, to make things sound so grand. Ellion had been his favourite squire.
A scoff came from the bishop, but nothing more.
“Where is Ellion now, milord?” I hadn’t yet heard where he had gone.
Sanctus looked at Tyranith… was it a look of sadness? But Tyranith smiled, though the smile was not like his usual. “I think the story we shall read will give you a good answer.”
That was enough for me. I was excited to hear the story of a knight who fought off the ogre clans!
Milord continued. “I shall read a piece written by Gulfard Na’haira, the king’s councillor. It is created from a mash of Ellion’s letters during the Siege of Lionseye in 659AP. AP stands for ‘After Purge,’ for your understanding Roy.” I understood the Sylvian calendar well enough.
Sanctus laid his palm on the desk. “Ah, a good source of information! Though I don’t like the country that the advisor comes from. I find its people are heretical, more often than not.”
“Your thoughts of Gulfard’s country and its folk are hardly a concern. By all intents and purposes this is a piece done by Ellion himself, simply enhanced in writing and flair,” said Tyranith.
Sanctus nodded and laid back in his chair. He seemed to have calmed. I took another sip of the dull-flavoured wine, and stared out once again at the rain. Pit, pat… pit, pat. I wish it rained in Emnos. It was a frigid place, yet never snowed. A desert, yet all aridness left long ago.
Milord Tyranith gave me some context. “You have heard many times by now of the Iron War. Its beginning point is debated, but conflict between the ogre clans and the men of Sylvia had been brewing over the course of the prior decade. Scholars typically state that the war began when Sir Anamos was executed by the Black Knight, the brigand that led the ogres.
“But this battle ensued not long after. Men call it the Tarnishing of the Lyredol Fields. Both I and Sanctus were there when it happened, so we have facts this piece may not share. But I shan’t spoil the events for you.”
“Apologies, milord, but who was Sir Anamos?” I asked.
The Lightbringer was the one to respond. “He was a knighted mage that served King Hennry XIII. You should know your nobles, boy.” Tyranith gave me a nod of confirmation.
There were so many lords of so many lands, and to remember all of them was far beyond my skills. Many had forgettable banners as well, which didn’t help. I knew, of course, the Lionsouls and Pendragons. Every farmer’s boy knew of the coup that caused Ardas Pendragon to take the throne from King Hennry. Some men said Ellion was part of the reason for that, though I was yet to understand how. “He was born in a time of blue lions,” milord would often say.
“This is an old story, Roy,” he said, “but it is a story all should know and respect.”
Sanctus cupped his necklace, which held a silver Noose. He started a prayer. “May Lucith be, in the heavens and in Coreth.” I could tell that his prayer came from a place in his heart, and it was the first show of him having any emotions other than overconfidence and disdain. I could tell he loved Ellion.
“Amen,” said milord. 
I wouldn’t be rude. “Amen.” But in my mind, I prayed not to Lucith, but Asmar, and to his divines. For Lucith remained a pretender in my mind, like the gems in Sanctus’ pauldrons.
Tyranith began reading in his voice that could only be designed for storytelling. “On September 5th, 659AP, we returned to the capital city of Lionseye after a mission in the Wyvern Woods…”